In this video, we're going to see how to answer some of these questions about vector spaces such as vector spaces of polynomials and matrices.
So here I've got a question about polynomials, namely, are these three polynomials linearly independent.
So we approach this in the exact same way as we did for the vectors.
We want to know how many ways there are to build the zero polynomial out of these three polynomials,
In particular we want to know, is there a non-trivial solution? So is there a non-trivial.
Solution to -- I'm not going to use X variables here because we have all these X's floating around,
I'll say y1 times 2x^2+x-1 plus y2 times the second one.
3x^2+x+4
And say y3 times x^+x-6
Is there are nontrivial way to build a zero polynomial out of these three?
So to answer this, we want to figure out if the polynomial on the left is equal to the polynomial on the right.
The zero polynomial over there. And two polynomials are equal exactly when all their coefficients are equal.
So let's go ahead and rewrite what's on the left, but group the things by coefficients.
So we can think about expanding out,
multiplying y1 times each of these terms y2 times each of these terms, and y3 times each of these terms and then grouping by the coefficients.
So I'll go ahead and do that in one step for efficiency. So for x^2 we'll get a 2y1 here.
From the middle term, we'll have a 3y2, and from the last term we'll just have a y3.
So those are the only terms that have an x^2 in them. For the x's,  we'll have a y1 from the first one.
A y2 from the second one. And looks like plusy3 from the third one.
And finally, for the constant terms, we have a negative y1 plus 4y2 and minus 6y3.
And we want to think about solutions of producing the zero polynomial.
So the only way that could be zero is if this first coefficient is zero. The second coefficient is zero.
And that third coefficient is zero. So we need these three things to happen simultaneously.
2y1+3y2+y3 needs to be zero.
y1+y2+y3 needs to be zero and -y1+4y2-6y3.
Also needs to be zero. Now we have a system of equations and we're asking ourselves how many solutions this system has.
So we can write down the corresponding augmented matrix here. Two three one zero one one one zero and negative one, positive four, negative six and zero.
So to answer that, just like we have been doing, will compute the reduced row echelon form.
I typed this into Wolfram Alpha in advance for expediency.
And this produces one zero two. Zero zero one negative.
One zero. And finally, the bottom row is all zeroes.
All right.
So our question was, is there a nontrivial solution? So we'll always have the trivial solution with y1, y2, and y3 all zero.
But here I see this third column here
is a non pivot column. Which means we'll have a free variable.
And if we have a free variable, that means we have infinitely many solutions. So we have infinitely many
Nontrivial solutions. Right, there's only one trivial solution, so they have infinitely many solutions.
All but one of those infinitely many things are non trivial solutions.
So we have nontrivial solutions. So the answer to this question is.
Yes. Is there a nontrivial solution? So that means that our polynomials are linearly dependent.
No. They are linearly dependent.
We can build that third one out of the first two.